nrf_rpc: Remote Procedure Calls for nRF SoCs (#160)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrfxlib: nrf_rpc/doc/architecture.rst

For this reason each side of the nRF RPC contains a thread pool.
It is OS-dependent and it is implemented in OS abstraction layer.
Number of threads in the thread pool is configurable.

When a caller wants to call a remote procedure, the nRF RPC checks if there is a thread available in a pool.
If there is not, then it waits until one becomes available, blocking the caller.
After that nRF RPC sends a packet and it is executed by available thread from a thread pool.
In the case of a Command being received, a Response is send directly to a waiting thread, so no new thread is allocated for a response.

Sample command/response diagrams are on the image below.

.. image:: img/cmd_simple.svg
   :alt: nRF RPC Simple Command flow
   :align: center

A thread waiting for a response may be reused to receive a new incoming command from the remote thread that the local thread is waiting for, e.g. when callback is called synchronously.
Below diagram shows that situation.

.. image:: img/cmd_recursive.svg
   :alt: nRF RPC Simple Command flow
   :align: center

Events always reserve a new thread from remote thread pool.

> Special attention is required when sending multiple events one after another, because each event will reserve a new thread. Sending events too fast may consume entire thread pool and as the result block all the outgoing commands and events.

Author: All nRF RPC commands and events until any thread is available in the thread pool.

Now I am thinking maybe adding `until any thread is available in the thread pool` to the documentation is a good idea to make sure that no one will think that they will be blocked forever.

Sample events are shown on diagram below.

.. image:: img/evt_simple.svg
   :alt: nRF RPC Simple Command flow
   :align: center

> Error handling

Reviewer: It's not totally clear to me here when error messages are sent between cores, and when they are just sent as callbacks to the local user.

Author: They are always send as a callback to the local user. Additionally they are send to the remote user if the error occurred during receiving/parsing the incoming packet.

==============

There are two kind of errors that can happen.

1. Error during parsing of incoming packet.
   This kind of error cannot be directly returned to the user e.g. as a return value.
   User is informed about such errors via a callback.
   First, if a group in which error happen is known then group error callback is called.
   Second, a global error handler (provided to :cpp:func:`nrf_rpc_init` function) is called.
   Malformed packet is something that should not normally happen, because transport layer is responsible for reliable packet transferring.

>    Errors should be treated as a serious problems from which nRF RPC probably will not recover.

Author: Currently uninit/init will not work as a recovery, so only reboot is possible.

.. _nrf_rpc_architecture:

Architecture
############

The following picture gives an overview of the nRF RPC architecture:

.. image:: img/layers.svg
   :alt: nRF RPC Architecture Layers
   :align: center

Types of communication
======================

You can issue the calls in one of two ways: using a command/response or an event.

> A **command and response** is intended to be used for synchronous function calls.

Reviewer 2: What is the idea about handling callbacks?

E.g., there is an API to register a callback, it allows to register multiple callbacks. On some event all the callbacks are called one after another. This API is used on local side to register callbacks to be called on event on the remote.

I can imagine that:
- callbacks are stored on the local side
- the remote uses RPC when event occurs to call some function on the local
- local side handles looping through all the callbacks.

Is it how you see it?

I am asking this since this approach actually means that a developer needs to move parts of remote function implementation to the local side (callback queuing), which does look great.

Author: nRF RPC has no special API for handling callbacks. They should be implemented using nRF PRC commands or events. It is up to the author of encoders/decoders how to handle them. Very simple example that show one way to handle callbacks is in "entropy" sample (nrfconnect/sdk-nrf#2179).

Before we started implementing nRF RPC I made some analysis of Zephyr's bluetooth API in context of RPC. During that I made some experimental module that will help to handle callbacks in more transparent way. Sources can be found here: https://github.com/doki-nordic/nrf53_baremetal/tree/callback-proxy. It is just a proof of concept, so it needs some more work and maybe integration with nRF RPC.

It is not possible to return anything from the remote side after receiving an event, but it is possible to send an event in the opposite direction.
The following image shows an example of the event flow.

.. image:: img/evt_flow.svg
   :alt: nRF RPC Event flow
   :align: center

.. _nrf_rpc_architecture_threads:

Threads
=======

When a remote procedure call is received, it must be executed in context of a thread.
For this reason, each side of the nRF RPC contains a thread pool.
It is OS-dependent and implemented in the OS abstraction layer.
The number of threads in a thread pool is configurable.

When a caller wants to call a remote procedure, the nRF RPC checks if there is a thread available in a pool.
If there is not, then it waits until one becomes available, blocking the caller.
After that, nRF RPC sends a packet and it is executed by an available thread from a thread pool.
In the case of a command being received, a response is sent directly to a waiting thread, so no new thread is allocated for a response.

The following image presents sample command/response diagrams.

.. image:: img/cmd_simple.svg
   :alt: nRF RPC Simple Command flow
   :align: center

> A thread waiting for a response may be reused to receive a new incoming command from the remote thread that the local thread is waiting for, e.g. when a callback is called synchronously.

Reviewer 2: Is it possible to get some code example for this?
I am struggling to understand how a thread can wait and process a callback as the same time.

Reviewer 2: Is it an option that another RPC call is executed from that synchronous callback?

Author: > Is it possible to get some code example for this?

There is no example of this at the moment. Do you think that it will be beneficial for the user to show this feature in the "entropy" sample (https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/2179)?

> I am struggling to understand how a thread can wait and process a callback as the same time. Is it supposed to be based on stream from the remote? E.g. the remote says to call a callback as part of its result.

You can look at `nrf_rpc/doc/img/cmd_recursive.svg`. Simple description how it works:
1. Local thread sends a command 1 and waits for incoming packets i.e. a response packet or another command packet.
2. Remote thread receives the command and executes it.
    * During its execution command 2 is send from the remote thread.
    * nRF RPC knows that we are executing command 1 that was requested by the local thread, so it sends it directly to the local thread.
3. Local thread received packet with command 2, so it executes it in context of the same thread and sends a response to remote thread.
4. Remote thread completes execution of the command 1 and sends a response packet to the local thread.
5. Local thread receives the response, so it returns back from the RPC to user code.

> Is it an option that another RPC call is executed from that synchronous callback?

If you asking if a thread waiting for a response is able to execute other commands than described above then the answer is no.

Reviewer 2: I find the examples for RPC extremely useful. Therefore, if it is possible, I think it is worth having it.

Thank you for details on how recursive case works. I have a follow-up question: is there a limit on depth in recursive scenario?
E.g., https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-zephyr/blob/master/include/bluetooth/bluetooth.h#L1053
This is Zephyr host public API and a candidate to be an RPC function. As you can see this function is called from a callback (RPC call #1), then the application calls this function (RPC call #2) which can also call passed callback on remote (call #3). Or how will this work?

Author: Recursive depth is limited by the stack size. Scenario with the multiple, callbacks that you shown above will work the same as in the single core case (at least from a user perspective).

Small comment regarding `bt_data_parse` function. I have different plans for it. When you look at the function body you will see that it is very simple and independent. Overhead required to encode and decode data for this function will be greater than the function itself, so I thinking that this function should be implemented in the application core without any RPC.

Author: I added recursive commands into the sample:

https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/2179/commits/fa0110d1ea5ed0887f7be71764c2f3203cac3c6d

.. architecture:

Architecture
############

The following picture gives an overview of the nRF_RPC architecture:

.. image:: img/layers.svg
   :alt: nRF_RPC Architecture Layers
   :align: center

Types of communication
======================

Calls can be done in one of two ways: using a command/response or an event.

**Command and response** are intended to be used for a synchronous function calls.
The caller sends the command to the other side and waits for a response.

> The response is send after end of execution of the a remote function.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The response is sent after the remote function returns on the remote core.
```

Following image shows an example of the command and response flow.

.. image:: img/cmd_flow.svg
   :alt: nRF_RPC Command/Response flow
   :align: center

**Events** are intended to be used for an asynchronous function calls.

> The caller sends an event to the other side and returns immediately if there is free thread in thread pool, otherwise it waits for available thread.

Reviewer 3: The concept of the Thread pool needs to be introduced before this.  Maybe up in the architecture section it could briefly introduce the idea that the remote must have a pool of one or more Threads - a Thread is used for each call.

Does this mean that every call made through RPC must be re-entrant and the APIs all thread safe or is there a way to restrict which calls can be made concurrently?

Author: nRF RPC API can be called from many threads without any restrictions. Only limitation is the thread pool size on the remote side. If it is fully used then call must wait (block) until some remote thread will be available.

Author: Maybe adding `(see :ref:'Threads' section)` is enough?

> The caller sends an event to the other side and returns immediately if there is free thread in thread pool **(see [Threads](#) section)**, otherwise it waits for available thread.

> It is not possible to return anything from the remote side, but it is possible to send another event in opposite direction.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is not possible to return anything from the remote side after receiving an Event, but it is possible to send an Event in opposite direction.
```

> Following image shows an example of the event flow.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following image shows an example of the event flow.
```

.. image:: img/evt_flow.svg
   :alt: nRF_RPC Event flow
   :align: center

Threads
=======

> When a remote procedure call arrived it must be executed in context of some thread.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When a remote procedure call is received, it must be executed in context of a thread.
```

For this reason each side of the nRF_PRC contains a thread pool.

> It is OS-dependent, so it is handled by the transport layer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is OS-dependent and is handled by the transport layer.
```

> Number of thread in the thread pool is configurable.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Number of threads in the thread pool is configurable.
```

Is it configurable to 1?

> When a caller wants to call a remote procedure the nRF_RPC reserves a thread on the remote thread pool and sends a packet to it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When a caller wants to call a remote procedure, the nRF_RPC reserves a thread on the remote thread pool and sends a packet to it.
```

> If there is no free thread in the pool then it waits until it will be available.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If there is no free thread in the pool, then it waits until one becomes available, blocking the caller.
```

> Response is send directly to a waiting thread, so no new thread is allocated for a response.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the case of a Command being received, a Response is send directly to a waiting thread, so no new thread is allocated for a response.
```

Sample command/response diagrams are on the image below.

.. image:: img/cmd_simple.svg
   :alt: nRF_RPC Simple Command flow
   :align: center

> Thread waiting for a response may be reused to receive a new incoming commands from the remote thread that local thread is waiting for, e.g. when callback is called synchronously. Below diagram show that situation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A thread waiting for a response may be reused to receive a new incoming command from the remote thread that the local thread is waiting for, e.g. when callback is called synchronously. Below diagram show that situation.
```

.. image:: img/cmd_recursive.svg
   :alt: nRF_RPC Simple Command flow
   :align: center

> Event always reserve a new thread from remote thread pool.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Events always reserve a new thread from remote thread pool.
```

> It is dangerous to send a lot of events one after another, because each event will reserves a new thread, so the thread pool may be consumed entirety.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is dangerous to send a lot of events one after another, because each event will reserve a new thread, so the thread pool may be consumed entirety.
```

Why is this dangerous?  Can it cause deadlock or just a bunch of threads waiting for events to be consumed?  The thread pool size will limit this right?

I think it needs further clarification to answer those questions.

Author: Nothing so dangerous as deadlock, so maybe *dangerous* is to strong word. I will think how to say it in a different way with more details.

> It is dangerous to send a lot of events one after another, because each event will reserves a new thread, so the thread pool may be consumed entirety.

Author: Yes, we are planning to execute at most one event containing one or more advertising reports. If more reports arrived they will be accumulated and send when the previous event is done.

This remains me that it will be beneficial to add optional callback to API that informs that event was done on the remote side.

> It is dangerous to send a lot of events one after another, because each event will reserves a new thread, so the thread pool may be consumed entirety.

Author: Calls will be blocked until there is available thread in the remote thread pool.

> It is dangerous to send a lot of events one after another, because each event will reserves a new thread, so the thread pool may be consumed entirety.

Author: This paragraph was changed to clarify this issue:

> Special attention is required when sending multiple events one after another, because each event will reserve a new thread. Sending events too fast may consume entire thread pool and as the result block all the outgoing commands and events.

Sample events are shown on below diagram.

.. image:: img/evt_simple.svg
   :alt: nRF_RPC Simple Command flow
   :align: center

Error handling
==============

> In some cases error cannot be returned directly to the user e.g. as a return value.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In some cases, errors cannot be returned directly to the user e.g. as a return value.
```

One example of that situation is when a packet was received, but it is corrupted.
In this case user function :cpp:func:`nrf_rpc_error_handler` will be called.
It is weakly defined in nRF_RPC, so it can be overridden by the user definition.

> Default weak implementation is empty, but the error is put to the log before calling :cpp:func:`nrf_rpc_error_handler`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The default weak implementation is empty, but the error is put to the log before calling :cpp:func:`nrf_rpc_error_handler`.
```

Should it be empty?  That is more than weak.  Is there any default recover option?

> Second situation is when we want to serialize function that returns `void`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A second situation is when we want to serialize a function that returns `void`.
```

> We cannot return an error code in this case.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An error code cannot be returned in this case.
```

It is possible to use :cpp:func:`nrf_rpc_cmd_send_noerr` or :cpp:func:`nrf_rpc_cbor_cmd_send_noerr` which returns `void` and any error redirects to :cpp:func:`nrf_rpc_error_handler`.

:cpp:func:`nrf_rpc_report_error` can be used to pass errors to :cpp:func:`nrf_rpc_error_handler`.

:cpp:func:`nrf_rpc_error_handler` will also receive fatal errors that happen on the remote side and they may affect stability of the nRF_RPC connection.

> Porting to OS

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Porting to another operating system
```

> =============

Reviewer 3: Should it be repeated in this section that the transport needs to be implemented on the OS?

Author: I think yes. This section gives very brief information about porting, so both *log* and *transport* have to be mentioned.

Author: Because of transport layer documentation deletion, this chapter was rewritten, so this comment is not significant any more.
